README.md, before:

# 📊 Business Decision Intelligence Engine

A **production-grade Business Decision Intelligence System** that continuously monitors KPIs, detects anomalies, forecasts future risk, and generates **explainable, actionable business decisions** through an automated analytics pipeline.

This project goes beyond traditional dashboards or ML notebooks and demonstrates how **data science systems operate in real businesses**.

---

## 🧠 What This System Does

✔ Monitors business KPIs (e.g., Revenue)  
✔ Detects abnormal behavior using statistical techniques  
✔ Forecasts short-term KPI risk  
✔ Quantifies confidence and validity of insights  
✔ Maintains full auditability (why an insight was generated)  
✔ Recommends **business actions** (Marketing, Finance, Ops, Product)  
✔ Exposes insights via FastAPI  
✔ Visualizes insights via Streamlit UI  

---

## 🏗️ High-Level Architecture

```text
Raw Business Data
│
▼
Production Pipeline (pipelines/run_pipeline.py)
│
├─ KPI Computation
├─ Anomaly Detection
├─ Forecasting
├─ Confidence Scoring
├─ Audit Trail Generation
└─ Action Recommendation Engine
│
▼
Decision Insights (CSV snapshot)
│
▼
FastAPI Backend (/insights)
│
▼
Streamlit Executive Dashboard
```

---

## 📂 Project Structure


```text
business-decision-intelligence-engine/
│
├── app/ # FastAPI backend
│ └── main.py
│
├── ui/ # Streamlit UI
│ └── app.py
│
├── pipelines/ # Production pipeline
│ └── run_pipeline.py
│
├── src/ # Core analytics logic
│ ├── kpi_calculator.py
│ ├── anomaly_detector.py
│ ├── forecasting.py
│ ├── insight_engine.py
│ └── action_engine.py
│
├── data/ # Local-only data (gitignored)
│ ├── raw/
│ ├── processed/
│ └── kpi/
│
├── notebooks/ # Exploratory & development notebooks
│
├── requirements.txt
├── .gitignore
└── README.md
```

> ⚠️ Note: Data files are intentionally excluded from GitHub.  
> All datasets are **regenerated by the pipeline**, following industry best practices.

---

## 🔬 Decision Intelligence Pipeline (Phases)

### Phase A — Production Data Pipeline
- Single command executes full analytics workflow
- Simulates Airflow / scheduled ETL jobs
- Ensures repeatability and automation

### Phase B — Confidence, Expiry & Auditability
- Each insight includes:
  - Confidence score
  - Validity window
  - Baseline metrics
  - Thresholds used
- Enables trust and traceability

### Phase C — Business Action Recommendation Engine
- Maps risks to **team-specific actions**
- Assigns priority and expected impact
- Converts analytics into decisions

---

## ⚙️ Setup Instructions (Beginner-Friendly)

### 1️⃣ Clone Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/deva-harshini/Business-Decision-Intelligence-Engine.git
cd Business-Decision-Intelligence-Engine
```

## 2️⃣ Create & Activate Virtual Environment

### Windows
```bash
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate
macOS / Linux
```
```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

## 3️⃣ Install Dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
🚀 Running the System

### 🔹 Step 1: Run the Production Pipeline
This generates KPIs, forecasts, and decision insights.

```bash
python pipelines/run_pipeline.py
```
###🔹 Step 2: Start FastAPI Backend
```bash
uvicorn app.main:app --reload
```
Backend available at:
```bash
http://127.0.0.1:8000
```

Test API:
```bash
http://127.0.0.1:8000/insights
```

###🔹 Step 3: Start Streamlit Dashboard
(Open a new terminal)

```bash
streamlit run ui/app.py
```
The executive dashboard opens automatically in your browser.

---

## 📊 Executive Dashboard Features
KPI trend visualization

Risk-level filtering (LOW / MEDIUM / HIGH)

Confidence-aware insights

Validity-aware decision windows

Actionable recommendations per team

Downloadable insights for reporting

---

👩‍💻 Author
Mandali Deva Harshini
B.Tech – Computer Science & Engineering

---

📬 Contact
🔗 LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/mandali-deva-harshini
Gmail: mandalidevaharshini@gmail.com

Commit message:

Add demo authentication details to README
Added demo authentication section with default admin password and usage notes.

README.md, after:

# 📊 Business Decision Intelligence Engine

A **production-grade Business Decision Intelligence System** that continuously monitors KPIs, detects anomalies, forecasts future risk, and generates **explainable, actionable business decisions** through an automated analytics pipeline.

This project goes beyond traditional dashboards or ML notebooks and demonstrates how **data science systems operate in real businesses**.

---

## 🧠 What This System Does

✔ Monitors business KPIs (e.g., Revenue)  
✔ Detects abnormal behavior using statistical techniques  
✔ Forecasts short-term KPI risk  
✔ Quantifies confidence and validity of insights  
✔ Maintains full auditability (why an insight was generated)  
✔ Recommends **business actions** (Marketing, Finance, Ops, Product)  
✔ Exposes insights via FastAPI  
✔ Visualizes insights via Streamlit UI  

---

## 🏗️ High-Level Architecture

```text
Raw Business Data
│
▼
Production Pipeline (pipelines/run_pipeline.py)
│
├─ KPI Computation
├─ Anomaly Detection
├─ Forecasting
├─ Confidence Scoring
├─ Audit Trail Generation
└─ Action Recommendation Engine
│
▼
Decision Insights (CSV snapshot)
│
▼
FastAPI Backend (/insights)
│
▼
Streamlit Executive Dashboard
```

---

## 📂 Project Structure


```text
business-decision-intelligence-engine/
│
├── app/ # FastAPI backend
│ └── main.py
│
├── ui/ # Streamlit UI
│ └── app.py
│
├── pipelines/ # Production pipeline
│ └── run_pipeline.py
│
├── src/ # Core analytics logic
│ ├── kpi_calculator.py
│ ├── anomaly_detector.py
│ ├── forecasting.py
│ ├── insight_engine.py
│ └── action_engine.py
│
├── data/ # Local-only data (gitignored)
│ ├── raw/
│ ├── processed/
│ └── kpi/
│
├── notebooks/ # Exploratory & development notebooks
│
├── requirements.txt
├── .gitignore
└── README.md
```

> ⚠️ Note: Data files are intentionally excluded from GitHub.  
> All datasets are **regenerated by the pipeline**, following industry best practices.

---

## 🔬 Decision Intelligence Pipeline (Phases)

### Phase A — Production Data Pipeline
- Single command executes full analytics workflow
- Simulates Airflow / scheduled ETL jobs
- Ensures repeatability and automation

### Phase B — Confidence, Expiry & Auditability
- Each insight includes:
  - Confidence score
  - Validity window
  - Baseline metrics
  - Thresholds used
- Enables trust and traceability

### Phase C — Business Action Recommendation Engine
- Maps risks to **team-specific actions**
- Assigns priority and expected impact
- Converts analytics into decisions

---

## ⚙️ Setup Instructions (Beginner-Friendly)

### 1️⃣ Clone Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/deva-harshini/Business-Decision-Intelligence-Engine.git
cd Business-Decision-Intelligence-Engine
```

## 2️⃣ Create & Activate Virtual Environment

### Windows
```bash
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate
macOS / Linux
```
```bash
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

## 3️⃣ Install Dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
🚀 Running the System

### 🔹 Step 1: Run the Production Pipeline
This generates KPIs, forecasts, and decision insights.

```bash
python pipelines/run_pipeline.py
```
###🔹 Step 2: Start FastAPI Backend
```bash
uvicorn app.main:app --reload
```
Backend available at:
```bash
http://127.0.0.1:8000
```

Test API:
```bash
http://127.0.0.1:8000/insights
```

###🔹 Step 3: Start Streamlit Dashboard
(Open a new terminal)

```bash
streamlit run ui/app.py
```
The executive dashboard opens automatically in your browser.

---

### 🔐 Demo Authentication

This application includes a simple admin login for demonstration purposes only.

- Default Admin Password: `admin123`
- This is a mock authentication layer to demonstrate role-based access
- Not intended for production use

---

## 📊 Executive Dashboard Features
KPI trend visualization

Risk-level filtering (LOW / MEDIUM / HIGH)

Confidence-aware insights

Validity-aware decision windows

Actionable recommendations per team

Downloadable insights for reporting

---

👩‍💻 Author
Mandali Deva Harshini
B.Tech – Computer Science & Engineering

---

📬 Contact
🔗 LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/mandali-deva-harshini
Gmail: mandalidevaharshini@gmail.com
